Language: en
============================================================

On the face of it, this is one of the most boring MacBook updates we've had in a while. But on the other hand, there's so much I need to talk to you about. Let's just start with the headline upgrades. This is the new 14-inch MacBook Pro. It's one of the three new devices to come with the M5 chip. We have the iPad Pro, the Apple Vision Pro, and the MacBook Pro. Just the base 14-inch MacBook Pro. There is no M5 Pro, no M5 Max chip yet. The 16-in is still using the old chips, although the higher skew versions. And on the outside, you wouldn't know this is the new one. It's visually identical. In fact, the only way you'd really know is if you run some benchmarks, which I have, and I'll show you the numbers in a second. And if you open the about page and you can see it says M5 there. So, this late 2025 MacBook Pro 14 is very much a spec bump hardware refresh. And the headline upgrades are the M5 chip. We have faster memory bandwidth. They've doubled the speed of the storage. We've gone from PCIe 3 to PCI 4. And for the first time, there is a 4 TB storage option on the base MacBook Pro. So yeah, it has a new chip and it's a little bit faster. Thank you very much for watching guys and I'll see you next time right here on the Tech Jab. Did I leave that long enough for comic effect? There's more to talk about. I also want to bring in the M4 Air and do some comparisons because while this really should be compared to the M4 Pro, the previous generation, I think most people, most of you guys, if you are going to go out and buy one, you're going to be thinking, shall I save £600 and pay 999 for M4 Air or shall I go for the 1600 quid MacBook Pro 14 with M5? So, I'm going to show you how much faster this actually is. But before we get to some lovely numbers, and actually they are quite lovely numbers. I didn't expect this to be as fast as it was. There is uh a little problem at least here in the UK and Europe because where's the box? Apple no longer ship a power brick or even a charging cable because of EU regulations coming in next year. So if you want the 70 W power brick and cable which everyone else in the world gets and also we used to get you'll have to pay £60 extra. And if you want the faster 96 watt, which gets you the faster charging, that'll be £70 extra, please. Which seems a little bit cheeky. Um, even if EU regulations do require Apple to remove it from the case, the box bundled, they could at least make it a free add-on, like you could put this in your basket online and say, "Oh, do you want the uh, you know, power cable with it extra because everyone else gets it for free and ship it as a separate product?" You'd think there'd be some way around that. Little bit frustrating we have to pay for this now, but again, only in the UK and Europe. Anyway, let's bring in the MacBook Air again here because I want to show you just how much faster this new M5 is. Really, there isn't much difference at all between the M4 Air and the M4 MacBook Pro, the one this is replacing, except for having a fan and sort of giving you better sustained performance. So, if you're playing games or doing, you know, long video edits, that will help. But essentially, it was the same chip in the Air and the base Pro. So, now we have the M5. How much faster is this? Well, Apple say that it's about 1.6 times faster for graphics, 3 and 1/2 times faster for AI, which sounds pretty impressive, but of course, I have to run my own tests, and this is how I've spent my weekend. So, just how much faster is the M5 in this new MacBook Pro 14? And is it worth paying the extra for over that or even, you know, last year's M4 Pro? Because they'll be pretty similar in performance. Well, in Geekbench 6, which measures the processor, it's not a big upgrade. We're talking about 14% for both single core and multi-core. But it's the graphics and the AI where this thing really shines. And in the 3D Mark Wildlife Extreme test, this was about 45% faster. But in the more demanding Solar Bay Extreme test, which uses ray tracing, this was 65% faster than this guy. Firing up Cyberpunk, which is optimized for Mac. It runs on their metal framework and it supports rateracing. The M5 was 200% faster. And even running the same test without ray tracing, it's still a good 56% faster. I know MacBooks aren't really gaming machines just simply because the library of games that are supported on Mac is so much smaller than PC, but Apple are putting more effort into it. And these kind of genon improvements to graphics and gaming performance is really impressive. But if we switch to the Blender benchmark, which just is a graphics test really. It doesn't take advantage of ray tracing, we're looking at a slightly more modest 26% optic on average. And actually a really good illustration of this performance is in the uh Blackmagic RAW speed test. This uh basically tests how fast it is at decoding 8K files on the CPU and the GPU. So the processor and the graphics. I mean it's all relative. The M4 in the Air and last year's MacBook Pro 14 was already incredibly fast. I think it was like the fastest processor you could get. This is just taking it a step further. But clearly there is more of an uptick, more of a improvement in the graphics department. But this is where things get interesting because one of the key features of the M5 chip is that each graphics core has its own neural accelerator. This is new and exclusive to the M5. What the heck does that mean? Well, if I open up the Geekbench AI benchmark, and then just run it using the neural engine, the MPU, which is what a lot of laptops use uh to, you know, accelerate AI tasks, nothing too crazy. But if we run the same test with the GPU, because of those neural accelerators, we're looking at 140% boost over the M4 with the GPU in Geekbench AI. And crucially, that does translate to real world local AI performance. So, if I fire up draw things, which is very cool little local AI image generation tool, you can download all sorts of different LLMs. The M5 MacBook Pro took 4 minutes and 15 seconds to generate the image versus 22 minutes 48 seconds on the MacBook Air. One more test. This is Topaz Video, which can enhance and upscale your video. It doesn't use the MPU. It uses the graphics, but because we have those new accelerators on the GPU of the M5, this should be faster. Let's find out together. I've not tested it. So, this is a 30 secondond iPhone clip. I'm just going to do the general enhancement just to get a sense of the relative performance. So, they are both now upscaling. Look at that. 1.2 frames pers, 25 minutes, 2.3 frames pers, 12 minutes. Basically is twice as fast. Now, yes, to be fair, this has 32 gigs of RAM. This has 16. And of course, the Pros have a fan inside. These don't. These are fanless, so it can keep the chip cooler, so it can run at high performance for longer, giving you better sustained performance. So that will obviously factor into the performance there a little bit. But this is where I get a little bit confused because who's buying this? I mean it's it's substantially faster in graphics particularly ray trace graphics and running local AI models. But most of the time you and I if we're using AI you know in uh Photoshop or chat GBT Gemini you know just general things we're using the cloud. It's not running locally. I mean there are some use cases like you know um mask tracking in Da Vinci AI image generation and of course there are advantages to running things locally like privacy and it can be faster and you don't need an internet connection but for most of us we're probably not really taking advantage of that. But then for those who would take advantage of it they'll probably want more than 32 GB of memory. This comes with either 16 or 32. And also for people who would take advantage of this performance, they'd probably be best off with a M5 Pro or M5 Max chip, which will undoubtedly be coming in the next few months, probably in early 2026. I mean, to be fair, there's no downside to this extra performance. If you don't utilize it, then doesn't really matter. It just makes it more future proof. And that's probably more relevant with these guys than most laptops because these have such long shelf lives. A lot of people are still rocking M1 MacBook Airs and Pros cuz it just hasn't been a really convincing reason to upgrade yet. So, the question is, if you are looking for a new MacBook and you don't want to wait to see what happens next year with the Pro and Max chips, should you go for a M4 MacBook Air or a M5 MacBook Pro 14? Well, I could make an entire video on this. I probably will, but highlights, headlines. This obviously is thinner and lighter. It's also 13 in rather than 14.2, so slightly bigger screen. The screen on this is also much nicer. This is a 120 Hz prootion 1600 nits proper HDR miniLEDD display. This is a 60 Hz 500 nit LCD. We also get much better speakers. We get more ports including the HDMI 2.1 and full-size SD card reader. It is quite a bit heavier, but we also do get that fan inside. Better performance with the M5. Double the base storage, which itself is also twice as fast as the previous model. You have the option for the nanoexture screen, which I have here. And if I just do a little demonstration, you can see what that does. If you're using this in a bright office out and about nanoexture, it does cost more. For me, I highly recommend the nano texture. £1,000, £1,600. It's quite a big difference between them. It's an odd one. I think for most people, it's worth waiting for the M5 Pro. And this is just such a great deal. £999 for 16 gigs of RAM, 256 storage, although I probably bumped up to 512. It's a lovely laptop, and it's a good deal. Thinner and lighter. Unless you're developing ray trace games or running local AI models, which I suspect most of us probably aren't, you're not really going to be seeing many benefits of the M5. And one thing we don't have with this, unlike where's it gone? Over here. I'm using it for my script or my notes. We don't have Wi-Fi 7 and we don't have Bluetooth 6. Both of which we have on the new iPad Pro. It's using the new uh C1X modem and N1 if you get the 5G version of this. For some reason, the shiny new M5 MacBook Pro still has the same connectivity as the previous gen. It is not the end of the world. And some people think it's because they didn't want to redesign the antennas because there's a more significant update to the MacBook coming 2026. And this whole situation is still a bit annoying. So bottom line, the new MacBook Pro 14 has got a bit faster. Well, quite a lot faster, although only in some use cases. But still, whatever issues we may have with this, find me a better all-around laptop with, you know, better performance, better battery life, and crucially, the same performance on battery is plugged in compared to any Windows laptop with the screen, FaceTime camera, ports, design, keyboard, trackpad. Apple is still absolutely killing it with their MacBooks. But I think for most of us, a good old M4 Air is probably still the better choice. Any questions, drop a comment below. Thank you so much for watching, guys, and I'll see you next time right here on the Tech Chat.